# Backgammon Client

This project is a TypeScript-based Vue 3 application built with Vite. It serves as the client-side of a Backgammon game, offering a dynamic and engaging interface for users to play the classic board game.

---

## Table of Contents
1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Features](#features)
3. [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
4. [Folder Structure](#folder-structure)
5. [Setup and Installation](#project-setup)
6. [Development and Testing](#development-and-testing)
7. [Authors](#authors)

---

## Overview

This application provides an interactive interface for playing Backgammon online. It is built using Vue 3 for the front-end, Vite for efficient development and build processes, and TypeScript for type safety.
CSS styling is done using Tailwind CSS, which allows for rapid prototyping and customization of the user interface.

---

## Features
- Interactive Backgammon board.
- Multiplayer support with turn-based gameplay.
- Real-time updates using WebSockets.
- Game state management with Pinia.
- User authentication and profile management.
- Ai opponent for single-player mode.
- Tournament support
- Ai support for in game moves
- Personal statistics overview

---

## Technologies Used
- **Framework:** Vue 3
- **Programming Language:** TypeScript
- **State Management:** Pinia
- **Containerization:** Docker
- **CSS Framework:** Tailwind CSS
- **Testing Framework:** Vitest
- **HTTP Client:** Axios

---

## Folder Structure

The `client` folder is structured to support a Vue 3 application using Vite as the build tool. Below is a description of the key files and directories:

- **`src/`**: Contains the source code for the application.
  - **`assets/`**: Contains static assets like CSS files and images.
    - **`bg.jpg`**: Background image for the application.
    - **`tailwind.css`**: Custom Tailwind CSS styles.
    - **`triangles.svg`**: SVG file for the triangles used in the game board.
    - **`wood-pattern.png`**: Wood pattern image used in the game view background.
  - **`components/`**: Contains Vue components used in the application.
    - **`__tests__/`**: Contains unit tests for the Vue components.
  - **`models/`**: Classes and interfaces used in the website code.
  - **`router/`**: Contains the routing configuration for the application.
  - **`services/`**: Pieces of business logic related to a single functionality.
  - **`stores/`**: Contains Vuex stores or Pinia stores for state management.
  - **`views/`**: Contains Vue components that represent different views or pages in the application.
  - **`App.vue`**: The root Vue component.
  - **`main.ts`**: The entry point for the application, where the Vue app is created and mounted.
- **`public/`**: Contains static files that are served directly without processing.
  - **`fav.ico`**: Favicon for the application.
  - **`lib.wasm`**: WebAssembly file for the AI logic.
- **`coverage/`**: Contains the code coverage report generated by Vitest.
- **`index.html`**: The main HTML file for the application.
- **`tsconfig.json`**: TypeScript configuration file that includes references to other TypeScript configuration files.
- **`tsconfig.app.json`**: TypeScript configuration specific to the application code.
- **`tsconfig.node.json`**: TypeScript configuration specific to Node.js code.
- **`tsconfig.vitest.json`**: TypeScript configuration specific to the Vitest testing framework.
- **`env.d.ts`**: TypeScript declaration file for Vite environment variables.
- **`package.json`**: Contains metadata about the project and its dependencies, as well as scripts for various tasks.
- **`README.md`**: The documentation file for the client directory.
- **`tailwind.config.js`**: Configuration file for Tailwind CSS.
- **`postcss.config.js`**: Configuration file for PostCSS.
- **`vite.config.ts`**: Configuration file for Vite.
- **`vitest.config.ts`**: Configuration file for Vitest.
- **`.editorconfig`**: Configuration file for maintaining consistent coding styles between different editors and IDEs.
- **`.prettierrc.json`**: Configuration file for Prettier, a code formatter.
- **`eslint.config.js`**: Configuration file for ESLint, a tool for identifying and fixing linting issues in the code.
- **`Dockerfile`**: Contains instructions for building a Docker image for the application.
- **`.editorconfig`**: Configuration file for maintaining consistent coding styles between different editors and IDEs.
- **`.gitignore`**: Specifies intentionally untracked files to ignore.
- **`.prettierrc.json`**: Configuration file for Prettier, a code formatter.
- **`.env.example`**: Example environment file for setting environment variables.

---

## Project Setup

### install dependencies
install the required dependencies by running the following command:
```sh
npm install
```

---

## Development and testing
### Compile and Hot-Reload for Development
The following command runs the application in development mode with hot-reloading enabled:

```sh
npm run dev
```

### Type-Check, Compile and Minify for Production
To build the application for production, run the following command:

```sh
npm run build
```

### Run Unit Tests with [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/)

To run the unit tests, use the following command:
```sh
npm run test
```
Check test coverage:
```sh
npm run coverage
```

### Lint with [ESLint](https://eslint.org/)
To lint the codebase, run the following command:

```sh
npm run lint
```
### Format code
To format the codebase, run the following command:
```sh
npm run format
```

---

## Authors

The SCRUM team for this project consists of the following members:

- **Scrum Master**: [Cristian Orsi](mailto:cristiam.orsi2@studio.unibo.it)
- **Product Owner**: [Enis Brajevic](mailto:enis.brajevic@studio.unibo.it)
- **Developer 1**: [Matteo Fornaini](mailto:matteo.fornaini@studio.unibo.it)
- **Developer 2**: [Mattia Ferrarini](mailto:mattia.ferrarini3@studio.unibo.it)
- **Developer 3**: [Enrico Mazzotti](mailto:enrico.mazzotti2@studio.unibo.it)
- **Developer 4**: [Lorenzo Giarrusso](mailto:lorenzo.giarrusso@studio.unibo.it)   